I'm Craig Keithley.
I'm Apple's
Security Technology Evangelist in Apple's
Worldwide Developer Relations Group.
My job is to work with
security developers.
It also includes, as it happens,
it's not shown here, that I'm Apple's
I/O Technology Evangelist.
So if you're working on smart cards
or other security devices that are
connected via the USB bus or Bluetooth,
I'd be happy to talk to you as well.
So today we're going to talk about
certificates and how they're used.
We'll discuss security management.
If you're not familiar with it,
we are adding new
security APIs to Panther.
So we'll go into what's in certificates,
their identities,
how you store and retrieve them,
and the issue of establishing
trust is an important one when
you're dealing with certificates,
so we'll talk about that.
We'll certainly reveal or show
you on a demo some of our new
functions to display certificates,
and we'll discuss secure transport.
So, to get started, Michael.
I'd like to,
I'm going to talk a little bit
about the security framework,
which is basically where most
of our security APIs live.
The security framework is
actually part of Darwin,
so all the sources for the
security framework are available
for download at Apple's website.
In particular,
I'm going to cover a couple areas.
SecKeychain, for as far as,
we use keychains to store certificates,
and that's where we want you to
store your certificates as well.
So, I'm going to cover that, you know,
not in depth.
We've had plenty of keychain
sessions in the past,
and if you have questions on that,
there's documentation online.
But I'm just going to cover the
part of that that's relevant
to our certificate APIs.
SecCertificate,
which is basically an object
that represents a certificate.
It contains the actual raw data
of the certificate and a couple
of higher level operations.
It's mainly used to pass around
certificates between our different APIs.
Then there's SecIdentity,
which I'll go into,
which actually represents a
certificate and a private key.
So, this is actually a certificate
that the user on that machine
can do something with,
because this represents
the user's identity.
Or, one of his identities.
So, that's actually something that
you can sign with or decrypt with,
etc.
Whereas, just a plain certificate really
could be anyone's certificate.
A certificate from some other person.
And finally, SecTrust is our,
it's like a workflow object that lets you
evaluate whether or not a certificate or
a group of certificates can be trusted.
In addition to the security framework,
there are two new frameworks
being introduced in Panther called
Security Foundation and
Security Interface.
For those of you familiar with Cocoa,
these are analogous with Foundation and
AppKit at the Cocoa level.
Security Foundation contains
our low-level,
non-GUI Cocoa APIs for dealing with some
of the certificate and authorization
and other security-related things.
Whereas Security Interface actually
contains views and dialogues and
things like that to have to do with
displaying certificates and displaying
other security-related information.
Previously, some of the things that are
in Security Interface and
Security Foundation were:
Security HI Cocoa,
which was a private framework.
But since it was Cocoa,
I'm sure that some of you in this
room must have reverse-engineered our
APIs and figured out what was there.
Unfortunately,
Security HI Cocoa is going away,
and it's being superseded
by Security Interface
and Security Foundation.
The good news is that
those two are public,
so we're committed to supporting them.
Let's see if the... There we go.
So,
I'll start with a quick overview of CDSA,
which stands for
Common Data Security Architecture.
And that's basically...
It's an open group standard.
It's the foundation on which all
of our security APIs are built.
CDNA is somewhat analogous to, let's say,
Microsoft's CAPI or OpenSSL,
which some of you might be aware of.
And some of the key differences between
those are that CDSA is pluggable.
In essence, it's a plug-in architecture.
It's an empty shell,
and you have different module
types that perform different tasks.
I'll go into more
detail about that later.
I'll cover some of the basic
functionality provided by the security
framework in addition to CDSA.
Then we'll talk a little bit how you
can use certificates to establish trust
and what APIs we provide to help you
do that and show you how to store and
retrieve certificates from keychains.
So I have a quick question.
How many of you know
what a certificate is?
[Transcript missing]
So we have a number of
different modules we provide.
Now, the two modules that are
more relevant to this session
are at the Certificate Library Module,
which the Certificate Library Module,
or CL, is used to syntactically
peel apart a certificate.
So a certificate consists of
a number of attributes and
potentially a number of extensions.
And the Certificate Library Module can
take this bob of binary data and
peel it apart so you can actually
get these attributes and extensions
in C structures or different formats
that your application can work with.
In contrast to the CL,
we have the Trust Policy Module,
which doesn't actually operate on
the low level on the certificates,
but it operates on groups of
certificates and can construct a
chain of trust in the case of X.509.
The Trust Policy Module is a tool
that allows you to have a trust policy
module that is based on the trust
policy that you have in your system.
If you were to have, let's say,
a PGP trust policy module,
you take a bag of certificates and
you could determine whether the
certificate that you're looking for is,
or that you want to evaluate,
is actually trusted due to
whatever relationships are needed.
So Trust Policy Modules,
we currently provide one
Trust Policy Module and it has
five or six different policies.
There's a policy for SMIME,
there's a policy for
SSL clients for SSL servers,
and there's a number of different
policies because there are slight
differences in what fields and
extensions and attributes need to be
there in a certificate chain for it to
be trusted for a particular operation.
So that's what
Trust Policy Modules is for.
And again,
all these modules are pluggable,
so as a developer,
if you find that we don't provide
the exact service you need,
you can actually write an additional
plug-in module that provides,
you know, a different trust policy.
So if you're looking for a
specific type of service,
you can write an
additional plug-in module.
And again, you can do that by adding
your own Trust Policy Module.
And since ours are open source,
you have a nice starting point.
So here's a little picture
of our entire security stack.
The CDSA part of that
is the lower two blocks.
So there's the
Common Security Services Manager and
then the add-in modules.
So that's really the
part we just covered.
So, some functionality that
CDSA has through the CSP.
You can do key generation,
generate symmetric keys, asymmetric keys,
HMAC signing keys, you name it,
it's there.
Encryption and decryption,
we support AES in the form of, well,
Raindell, the algorithm.
We support triple DAS, DAS, RC2, RC4,
RC5, all the common algorithms.
Support different types of digests, MD5,
SHA1,
there's a couple others in there too.
Data Storage and
Retrieval through the DL,
so for storing security-related things
like keys or certificates or whatnot.
[Transcript missing]
Finally, there's certificate parsing and
evaluation and determination of
trust through the CLNTP modules.
So, back to the step up to
the security framework.
So one of the things it does,
it implements CDSA.
Actually,
all the plugin modules that we ship
are actually built into the framework.
They're not actual plugins.
That's really just a performance hack
or performance implementation detail.
From the developer's point of view,
they still look like plugins.
It's just we don't have
to actually load them.
So we provide, in addition to CDSA,
we also provide the higher level
security interfaces like Sec Keychain
APIs and some of the other
APIs I talked about in the introduction,
Sec Certificate, Sec Trust.
There's a whole suite of APIs.
There's authorization APIs in there.
There's a bunch of other things.
There is no user interface
in the security framework.
The security framework depends
on the system framework,
and that's it.
It's part of Darwin,
but it doesn't have any other
dependencies than the system framework.
So, no Carbon, no Cocoa, nothing.
So, your app command line tool could
link against the security framework,
and in fact,
many command line tools should, probably,
if they are anything related to security.
And, as I said before,
it's part of Darwin open source.
You can go to opensource.apple.com,
I think,
or developer.apple.com/opensource,
and just download the latest
version of the security framework,
which is what you have on your
machines right now on Panther.
The only difference between the
open source version of security
framework and what's on your machine
in Panther is that there are two
algorithms in the CSP that are used
to create the security framework.
There are two algorithms that
are patented by Apple and
still considered proprietary,
which are FEE, which is a fast elliptic
curve implementation,
and ASC,
which is Apple secure compression.
Neither of those are actually used in
any of the default software we ship.
So, if you were to take the open
source version and build it,
you wouldn't get these two algorithms.
But you have to be aware,
if you're planning to
actually use these algorithms,
they're not part of the
open source distribution.
So, if you're planning to use these
two algorithms in your application,
you can't use a security
framework that you built yourself.
So now on to the Sec APIs,
which Sec is short for security.
It's not French for dry.
I mean, it is,
but that wasn't our intention.
[Transcript missing]
So if you're in a Cocoa app,
that might benefit you.
Be aware of copy versus get.
You know, that's the,
if you call a method that,
or a function that has copy in its name,
that means that the object
returned by it is being copied,
which means that you as a
developer are responsible for
calling cfrelease on its result.
Whereas if it has get in its name,
you shouldn't call cfrelease
unless you call cfretain before.
So if you want to actually
keep that object around,
you better cfretain it.
And in fact, in some of our APIs where,
that are named get,
it'll be clear from the documentation
that the lifetime of the object
you're getting is most likely
tied to the lifetime of the object
that you're getting it from.
So, for example, if you were to get a,
we have, for example,
if you have a certificate object,
you can actually get a CL handle,
which lets you operate at the
CDSA level with that certificate.
That CL handle is only guaranteed
to be valid for as long as that
SEC certificate object is valid.
So, it might be valid after that,
but we don't guarantee it.
And the CL handle happens
to not be a SEC object,
so you can't retain it.
It's just a CDSA level handle.
Which brings me to the last point,
which is bridge functions to CSSM.
So we didn't try to make
the Sec layer complete.
We tried to make it, you know,
have most of the high-level
functionality that you would wanna use.
Now, in most applications,
it's sufficient to have the SecLayer.
Now, SecCertificate, as an example,
does not have actual APIs to
decompose a certificate and get all
the different fields out of there.
If you wanna actually go down to
that level and really peel apart the
certificate and see what's in there,
you can get the CL handle out from there,
and you can call the CL functions
to basically parse the certificate
and figure out what's in it.
So if your application has the need to do
its own custom display of certificates,
you could do that.
Now, normally,
you probably wouldn't need that because
we provide a SF certificate view class,
which actually can display a certificate
and does all this work for you.
Again, if you wanted to customize this,
we do provide a way to
bridge down to CSSM.
So here's where the
Sec APIs are in the big picture.
So there's CDSA below,
and the Sec APIs sit
right on top of that.
In addition to the Sec APIs,
that same layer,
we have Secure Transport,
which is our SSL implementation.
The Authorization APIs,
which aren't covered
in this session today,
but if you have any questions
at all about authorization,
about how to use them,
there's actually some really
cool new stuff we've added to
authorization that many of you
have been asking us for years,
which is we now allow you to customize
the dialogs in authorization.
That's actually not on the CDs you have,
but in the authorization
lab downstairs in the,
I think it's the Marina conference room,
we have an updated version
of the security agent,
which actually supports
the customizable dialogs.
And we also let you now add and
manipulate authorization rules,
so as a developer,
you can now actually do a lot of new,
cool stuff with authorization.
So be sure to come down to our lab
any time this week to check that out.
Thank you.
Learn more about that.
So, I just want to do a quick
thing on Keychain APIs,
because some of you might
have come from OS 9,
and we're really thankful because
you've been with us for a long time,
and you might have been early
adopters of the Keychain APIs,
and going, "Well,
what's all this new Sec API stuff?
Do I really care?" Well,
the good news is the Keychain
Manager APIs that have been around
since OS 8.6 or 8.5 are staying.
They're here to stay.
They're part of Carbon.
They're not changing,
which also means they're not evolving.
But they do everything that
most apps would need to do for
manipulating Keychain objects.
Now,
in addition to the Keychain Manager APIs,
back in Jaguar,
we introduced the Sec Keychain APIs.
And the advantage of the
Sec APIs versus the Keychain
Manager APIs is they're not in Carbon.
So, the Sec APIs would be usable from
a Cocoa app without you having to
pull in the entire Carbon stack.
There's a couple other things,
so I'll get to that.
So, like I said, both APIs are supported.
They're going to be
supported in the future.
And, in fact, a Sec Keychain Ref is
the same as a KC Ref,
and a Sec Keychain Item Ref is
the same as a KC Item Ref.
So, that's not documented anywhere, but,
you know, you can actually use those
APIs interchangeably,
because the core implementation of
them is actually exactly the same.
Both these APIs might bring up UI.
You might be wondering, I just said,
you know,
security framework doesn't do any UI.
What are you talking about?
Well,
the security framework itself doesn't
actually depend on any UI framework,
so linking against the security framework
doesn't pull in UI code into your
application if it didn't already have it.
But if you're calling into
security framework calls,
we might bring up UI through this
application that gets run in the
background called the security agent,
which basically is our way of doing
secure interaction with the user.
So we, the security framework actually
talks to the security server,
which is a background process that's
always running on your machine,
which manages any persistent state about,
you know,
your keychains and things like that.
So you can actually run it.
And the security server can launch
the security agent on behalf of
the user if your application is
part of a GUI-enabled session.
So the security server
knows this magically.
Basically, if you SSH into your machine
and you do something that
would normally require a UI,
it won't happen because, you know,
that SSH session is not part of a
login session that can put up GUI.
So if your process was
launched by system startup,
you could do that.
But if it was launched by system
starter or by some low-level demon,
it's not going to put up UI.
The only way it's going to put up
UI is if it was launched somehow by
the Windows server or a child of the
Windows server like the Finder or
if you launched it from terminal,
it would still bring
up UI in that session.
And now with multiple users in Panther,
which are the fast user switching,
you know,
there can be multiple GUI sessions
at a given point in time,
but it'll bring up the UI in
the appropriate user session.
Unless you turn off user interaction,
which there's a call at both in the
Keychain Manager layer and in the
Sec layer to turn that on and off.
And if you're using authorization API,
it's actually every time you
call an authorization call,
there's a flag saying, you know,
do I want to allow user
interaction this time?
So as a developer,
you still have the option
to override to turn it off,
but you can't turn it on in a session
that wouldn't otherwise be able to do UI.
Some of the advantages of a Sec Keychain:
If you have an app
using Keychain Manager,
it's all good.
You probably don't have to transition.
But if you're writing a new app,
I'd highly recommend you actually use
the Sec Keychain interfaces versus
the Keychain Manager interfaces,
and here's why.
The Sec Keychain interfaces support
all different application environments.
So you can use it in a Carbon app,
you can use it in a Cocoa app,
you can use it in a tool,
in a command line tool,
you can use it in a system daemon,
you can use it in just about anything.
Because there's so little dependencies,
you're not dependent on
any additional frameworks.
Also,
the Sec Keychain API is more flexible.
You can get and set all the
attributes of a single application.
With the Keychain Manager layer,
you're doing that as individual calls.
One of the downsides is if for
some reason two apps would be
manipulating an item at the same time,
you might not get a coherent
snapshot of that item.
Because app A might change one attribute
and app B might change another attribute.
You'd end up with an item
that doesn't make sense.
If you're using the Sec APIs when
you're manipulating an object,
you can do it all in one call.
So it's an atomic modification
or an atomic add or remove.
And finally, well actually not finally,
but one more important thing is that
both APIs have access control support
as far as the user will be prompted
to update the ACL of the item if the
current access controller doesn't let a
particular application access that item.
The Sec layer lets you specify
an initial access control list
that's different from the default.
The default access control list
that we put in every item you
create using the Keychain API is the
current application can modify and
access that item without warning.
If you, for example,
had an application and you have some
background process that runs that
also needs to access that same item,
using the Sec layer,
you can actually set up an access control
list that allows both of those to access
the item without warning initially.
So the user would never get a
dialogue in his face saying,
you know,
do you want to allow application X or,
you know, my background faceless
process X to access this item.
So that's an advantage of the Sec APIs is
that you can actually do that.
And last but not least,
system keychain support,
which is new in Panther,
and internally at least a lot of
people have been asking us for this.
And I'm sure that some of you
might find a need for this too,
which is basically, rather than,
if you have a system service
that somehow needs a password,
for example, PPP,
if it's not configured for a particular
user but for your machine as a whole,
when your machine boots,
it needs to make, let's say,
a VPN connection to somewhere,
but you want to store that password
for the VPN connection somewhere.
Well, if there's no user logged in,
you don't have a keychain unlocked yet.
Well, that's where we introduced
system keychains.
So this is a way that you can use
the same keychain APIs that we've
always had from a system daemon,
and it actually,
we automatically detect whether
your system is logged in or not.
So this is a way that you can use
the same keychain APIs that we've
always had from a system daemon,
and it actually,
we automatically detect whether
your system is logged in or not.
a user processor system daemon,
and there are APIs you can override it,
so you can actually switch
explicitly to be a system daemon.
If you were started from
a regular user session,
you can say, "Well, no,
I'd want to be -- I want to access
the system keychains instead." But it
lets you store secrets that are
available as soon as the machine boots.
The way the system keychain is locked
and unlocked is currently there's
basically a root-only readable file
containing a random generated key
that unlocks the system keychain.
So you need root access to the machine to
gain access to the secrets in this file.
In the future,
we might improve this mechanism
and add support for things like
you have to have a hardware key in
the machine when you boot to unlock
the system keychain or whatnot.
The main thing is you as an app
writer don't have to worry about it,
and it sure is a lot better than just,
you know,
XORing your password with FF and
writing it to some file on the disk.
So, it's there.
If you need it,
you should probably be using it.
Basically, if your app does
anything with a password,
you should give the user the option to
store that password in the Keychain.
That's pretty much the deal on that.
So, back to the main meat of the session,
which are certificates.
So,
I guess I already asked this question.
Most of you already know
what an X5 and insert is,
so I'll kind of skip
through this quickly.
Certificate consists of a public key
and a number of fixed attributes,
the most important one being the subject,
which is, you know,
who does this certificate pertain to,
and that contains a number
of fields like X500 name,
which is this name based
out of different components,
which can contain your common name,
your organization,
all these different fields.
And an issuer,
which is just like the subject,
is an X500 name, which is, well,
who is the issuer?
And an issuer is the person who issued
this certificate to this person.
And in addition to the issuer,
there's a serial number
and some other things,
and there's some validity
information in the cert,
like from when to when is it valid,
and there's a couple other attributes.
In addition to attributes,
there can be one or more
extensions in a certificate,
and the extensions fall
apart into two categories.
There's a flag in an extension that says
whether it's critical or non-critical.
If you're somehow processing
certificates and you run across
a non-critical extension and
you have no clue what it is,
you just, you know, "Oh well,
I don't know what it is,
that's fine." However,
if you run across an extension marked as
critical and you have no clue what it is,
you're supposed to not continue
processing that certificate.
You should say, "Well,
this is a critical extension,
but I don't understand how to parse it,
so I can't deal with
this." Now fortunately,
our CL module actually supports,
as far as we know, all the known,
currently documented critical and
non-critical extensions out there.
If you find any, you know,
weird or new extensions that
you think we need to support,
please let us know again in the
feedback forum or on our mailing list,
and we'll be sure to add support
for that in a future release.
And then finally,
a public key certificate contains a
signature of all of the above fields,
and that signature is made
using the issuer's private key.
So the issuing certificate actually signs
the subject certificate in question.
So, like I said,
each certificate is signed by its issuer,
which basically means you can
have a chain of certificates.
You have a certificate,
a leaf certificate,
the leaf certificate is
signed by its issuer,
the issuing certificate might
be signed by its issuer,
and that keeps going forever.
Well, no.
It actually stops at some point
because you end up with a certificate
that has itself as its issuer.
So it's signed by itself.
Well, that signature doesn't really
mean much because anyone can make
a certificate signed by itself.
Because I can just generate a
public key or in a private key,
create a certificate, and sign it.
Well, what's the problem there?
Well, the only way to trust a
self-signed certificate is by
predetermining trust for it,
or by trusting it by prior arrangement.
And we do that through this thing
called the RIDCERT database.
On Mac OS X,
the RIDCERT database is in a file
called System Library X509 Anchors,
which, incidentally, is a keychain file.
Or, if you want to look at
it at a lower level,
it's actually a CSSM DB file
managed by the Datastore library.
So that's the Root Certificate Database,
and that basically contains all
the root certificates that are
commonly used today by Verisign,
Thought, all the different root
certs that are needed.
Now, if for some reason you have your
own local CA at your institution
or whatever it is you have,
you can add new root certs
to the Root Cert Database.
To do that,
you can actually use just Keychain
Access or our command line tool,
which is new in
New in Panther, called Security,
which actually lets you manipulate
keychains and other CDSA functionality.
And normally you'd need
administrator access to do that.
So if you're using Keychain access,
you'll get a dialog asking you
to authenticate as administrator.
If you're using the command line tool,
you'd have to run it as root.
So the RootCert database
is actually machine-wide,
so that's like all the RootCerts that all
the users in that machine would trust.
As of today, we don't have support yet
for per-user RootCerts,
but that's definitely something
we're looking into for the future.
So, I want to give a quick example
of how SSL uses certificates,
and I'm not going to go,
to make it not too complicated,
I'm just going to do authenticating
the server to the client,
not authenticating the
client to the server,
which is something we support.
So first the client
connects to the server.
Server responds with a bunch of stuff,
which one of the things that's
included in that response
is one or more certificates.
The client then verifies and
constructs a certificate chain.
So it takes a certificate,
looks for the issuer of the certificate,
and it's either in the list of
certificates provided by the server,
or it's in one of the
user's keychains already,
or somewhere on the machine,
my quad to LDAP databases or whatever,
to figure out where
those certificates are.
So it builds this chain,
and then if the chain itself is valid,
the final step is to actually see if the
root of that chain is already trusted.
And the way we do that is to check if
it's actually in this X.509 anchors file,
or a root cert database, and if it's not,
then well,
unfortunately the chain can't be trusted,
because you can't trust a cert
that's self-signed unless you've
previously agreed to trust it.
[Transcript missing]
So, depending on what you're
using the certificate for,
the policy might state some additional
requirements on that certificate.
And this is exactly what our
trust policy modules encapsulate.
So they'll actually go and do
this additional check for you.
Now obviously the application has to know
what additional information to provide.
So, a browser, or actually something
using Secure Transport,
will actually provide the
URL to the trust layer to say,
well, you know, check this field as well.
So...
So, talk about Sec Certificate itself,
which is the Sec or security
low-level wrapper for a certificate.
It's like all the other Sec things,
they're, you know, C objects,
just like CF things,
so it has a number of operations.
You can import and export
raw certificate data.
Currently, Sec Certificate only
supports X509 certificates,
but that's because all the,
the only CL and TP we ship are X509.
But if you were to write
a CL or TP supporting
different certificate formats,
then that would automatically
start being supported because of
the plugin architecture of CDSA.
You can store and retrieve
Sec certificates from a Keychain if
you Sec certificate has an add to
Keychain method that you can call.
You can use a CL module to parse
the certificate if you wanted
to syntactically pull it apart,
because you can use the bridging
down to CSSM to actually get a
certificate library module and pull
apart the certificate in fields.
And you can display it using
an SF certificate view,
which is part of the security interface.
And finally,
rather than calling directly into the TP,
which you can do if you really want to,
we actually recommend you
use SecTrust for that.
SecTrust actually behaves as a
wrapper for using the trust policy
module to evaluate the certificate,
but it adds some
additional functionality,
which I'll go into a little bit later.
Secure Transport expects you
to pass in certificates and let
you get at the certificates that
are a result of the connection,
which we'll show you a little
bit later how that works.
They're used in SecTrust, obviously,
because SecTrust deals
with trust of certificates.
And they're actually used in identities,
which,
if you don't remember what those were,
an identity is actually an
object that represents a
certificate and a private key.
So the certificate
component of the identity is
represented by SecCertificate.
Certificates don't have access control.
Wait, isn't that a bad thing?
Well, no,
because certificates are public.
They're public key certificates,
and there's nothing in a
certificate that's secret.
And in fact, you know,
you can't tamper with a
certificate and still have it be,
still have it verified correctly.
So you don't need to
protect certificates.
The only thing you can do by
not having access control on
them is delete a certificate.
So, but that level of access control
is provided by the file system.
Secure Transport, SSL,
and Keychain storage operations.
So, Secure Identity is not an
object that exists in a Keychain
database in and of itself.
It's actually constructed
on the fly by looking for a
certificate and a key that match.
And the construction of Sec Identity
is done by looking for a certificate
through all your Keychains and looking
for a key through all your Keychains.
So that actually means that the
certificate and the key don't even have
to be in the same Keychain or in the
same place for them to form an identity.
[Transcript missing]
But if you get multiple matches,
you should probably let the user
pick which one he wants to use.
And rely on us to do access control,
because the user can set his
preferences any way he wants in
Keychain Access as to how much,
which apps and how can
access the private key,
so you don't need to
worry about that part.
Some uses of Sec identities.
Secure Transport uses identities
in the client-side authentication.
802.1X is actually new in Panther,
which I'm sure you've all
seen the big new session.
It's like, "Yay,
we're adding 802.1X." Well,
that's actually authentication over IP,
which is both for airport
and for wired networks.
And one of the ways of
authenticating to the server
with 802.1X is using identities.
And there's future applications coming,
one being, for example, S/MIME,
secure email.
The S/MIME, we have an S/MIME SPI,
which it is an API yet
that we're working on,
and we encourage you to take a
look at it if you're planning
on using our S/MIME APIs in the
future and give us feedback,
what you think.
And the SPI code is actually open source,
so you can go to the
Darwin website and download that.
The project is Security NSS S/MIME.
It's actually based on
the Netscape S/MIME code,
but we're using our CDSA-based
crypto stack instead of what
Netscape was using themselves.
So you get all the advantage
of access control lists and
all these things that we have.
So, going to policies,
I talked a bit about
trust policy modules.
And so a trust policy module can
actually support one or more policies.
And I've mentioned this
a couple of times before,
and policy basically is the set of rules
that decides whether or not a particular
chain of certificates will be trusted.
And like I said before,
there's an SSL policy,
there's S/MIME signing policy,
there will be an encryption policy.
There's a separate policy in SSL actually
for client versus server auth.
You could have a code signing policy,
which might have different
requirements on the leaf certificate.
It can't just be a random
email certificate someone got,
but it might have to be, in the case of,
for example, VeriSign, they have class 1,
class 2, class 3.
They have different certificates,
which for them to issue
that certificate to you,
you have to provide different levels
of proof of who you are before
they'll issue that certificate.
Well,
for a cert to be valid for code signing,
you probably want to require a higher
level of proof that this developer
really is who they claim to be.
And unlike an SSL or an SMIME cert,
there should probably never be
an automated way of trusting a
code signing cert without at least
having shown it once to the user.
Because even if this developer is
registered and it's a real developer,
the user still might want to decide
whether or not he wants to install
software from this developer.
So, some policies take parameters
like SSL and SMIME,
and the parameters depend
on what the policy is.
And typically your application
should know what that parameter is,
like in SMIME it's the email address,
in SSL it's the URL.
So, SecTrust deals with policies
and certificates and all these
different things and kind of wraps
it up in this neat little object
that really makes your life a lot
easier when trying to determine
whether a certificate is trusted.
So it validates the certificate,
it validates the certificate
using the policy.
Now in addition to that,
it established the user trust.
So go back to the code signing example.
The first time the user sees
code from a particular developer,
they might not-- you'd
preferably like to display the
certificate to the user and say,
well,
do you really want to trust this thing?
You're installing Flash.
Do you really want to trust the
software signed by company XYZ?
The user can then decide, "Well, sure,
go ahead, do it.
I'm fine with installing the
software." The user can actually say,
"Well, no, I don't want to,
and I never want to install any
software signed by this company
because I don't trust them,
and I think there's probably a virus
or something." Or they might say,
"Yeah, sure, go ahead.
It's Apple.
It's all good.
Apple software updates signed by Apple.
It's good.
Sign them, install them.
That's fine." That decision that the user
makes is stored as a user trust setting,
and SecTrust actually manages these
user trust settings in addition to doing
the regular certificate evaluation.
SecTrust isn't an actual object that
represents some real world thing,
it's a workflow object.
You create one,
stick in the certificates,
set what policies you want to use,
set some additional parameters,
attributes, and evaluate it.
That's pretty much what you do with it.
In addition to that,
you can actually use it to set these
user trust parameters and inspect the
user trust parameters on the cert.
So, when you evaluate SecTrust,
there's a couple of different outcomes.
It could be, you know,
the certificate's valid, it's all good,
and if it's valid,
there's actually three possible answers.
The answer could be denied,
which means the certificate was valid,
but the user didn't want to trust it.
Or it could be, yep, go ahead, proceed,
it's all good, the certificate's valid,
and the user actually has
previously seen this and they
decided that they want to always,
you know, continue without bothering them
when they see the certificate.
Or it could be, well, we don't know yet.
We haven't actually displayed
this to the user and,
you know, he never really decided.
And finally,
it could be the user decided to,
you know, always ask me when you get this
certificate because I want to see each
time something happens that uses this.
There can also be errors
during the evaluation.
Now, those errors are actually
divided into two categories.
You have recoverable
errors and fatal errors.
Fatal errors means, you know,
something was wrong and
there's no way to fix it.
You know, root cert was missing.
There was like, you know,
there were actually invalid signatures
in the chain or something like that.
Well, recoverable errors are something
we've had to add because people
using certs for servers didn't
really update their certs in time.
Remember earlier on we talked
about what's in a cert.
Well,
one of the things is the validity date.
Well, it turns out that, you know,
20 or 30% of the websites out there
that use SSL use expired root certs.
And it's like, well, according to X509,
if you, you know, read these books,
it's like, well, okay,
root certs expired.
Sorry, you can't connect.
Well, it's kind of annoying if you
can't connect to Amazon.com
with Apple's browser,
so.
There needs to be a way for you to say,
"Well, okay, the root cert was expired,
but that's okay.
Go ahead anyway." And that's
what a recoverable error is.
It's basically,
if you get a recoverable failure,
you can actually tell SecTrust, "Well,
you know what?
If root certs are expired, that's okay.
Go ahead." So you set this parameter,
you devaluate it again,
and if that was the only thing wrong,
it would say, "Okay, now it's good."
We do encourage you to not just go and,
you know, let's always set these things.
We do encourage you to actually,
you know, tell the user or warn somewhere
there is something wrong.
But, you know, okay,
from now on we'll just go on and,
you know, not worry about the
fact that it's expired.
But you shouldn't just blindly
turn off all these things because
there are a couple of different
options and you shouldn't,
you should, in your app,
try and be as strict as possible,
but allow for, you know, real world use.
There are some additional
results on the side.
If something goes wrong
during the evaluation,
you can actually get a detailed
structure of the entire evaluation.
It will show you details about
each cert in the chain and what
was right or wrong with those.
As it happens,
we actually have a UI object to
display that in a nice way to the user,
because that information
can be fairly complicated.
There's actually a UI object that
lets you display these trust results
coming from a SecTrust object.
Some of the ingredients you can stick
in to SecTrust before you evaluate it:
policies, parameters.
Obviously you have to put in the
certificate you're actually evaluating,
and you can,
in addition to that certificate,
add a bunch of helpful certificates
that might not be available
to the system otherwise.
They're optional.
If they're already there in some
keychain or some other place
where the system can find it,
they're not needed.
But typically,
like if you connect to a server,
it'll send you a bunch of certificates.
You just drop them all in,
and SecTrust will do whatever
it needs to do with them.
and like I said,
it'll search any keychains
for more certificates.
Now,
if you have a very custom application
and you don't want to use the system
anchor certificate or root cert database,
SecTrust actually lets you
specify your own list of anchors.
So for a particular application,
you only want to trust this one root,
you can actually pass that
in in SecTrust and say,
"Well, just only trust this root or this
list of roots." So that's possible.
The user trust settings are
actually part of SecTrust,
and that lets you manage the user trust
settings for a particular certificate.
They're really only useful for
administrative applications.
You normally don't really need to
manipulate those because the normal way
you would do it is you'd bring up this
user trust dialog and that actually lets
the user change their trust settings on
the fly while displaying the certificate.
These trust settings are actually
per certificate per operation,
or really per certificate
per policy is what it is.
So if a certificate is
valid for multiple policies,
each of those policies could have
a different user trust setting.
And the four different
values for trust are:
It's not set, which is the default.
It can be always ask, always deny,
or always proceed without asking.
This is what the
Edit User Trust dialog looks like,
more or less.
So there's a view of the
certificate in there,
and you can change all these
different trust settings.
And now we'd like to demo,
invite Ken up on stage,
and he's going to show you
exactly how all this works.
Thanks, Michael.
The first thing I want to show
you is a brand new web browser
that was just released this week,
and it's not Safari.
[Transcript missing]
That's all well and good,
but as Michael said,
there's a lot of sites out there
that have some kind of problem.
So these bad SSL sites,
what happens when you go there?
Here's one: digitalidverisign.com.
So I tried to connect to this,
and there's a problem.
So what I can do is just put up this
panel that tells me what the problem is.
In this case, there's an untrusted root.
So why is this root untrusted?
Oh, it expired in 1999.
Whoops.
So I can give the user the option
to go ahead and connect or not.
In this case, you know,
I don't trust that, so I won't connect.
Here's another example: authorized.net.
And there's a problem there, too.
Let's see.
Certificate chain not verified
because the root was not found.
So Michael explained to me that.
Michael explained that the
only roots that are trusted are
in that system-wide database,
X509 anchors.
So let's go and see if I can.
Add that to my Anchor database.
I downloaded the cert.
I've got it sitting out on the desktop.
So I'll just double click it here.
And Keychain Access is launched,
and it asked me if I want to
add this cert to a keychain.
And I've got a couple
different keychains,
but again, X.509 Anchors is the root
certificate database,
so I'll stick it in there.
Now, because that's managed
as it's owned by root,
I have to be an admin user on the
system to change that database.
So I'll go ahead and type
in my password to import it.
And actually, let's look at the
contents of this keychain.
We can see all the different
root certs that are in there.
And sure enough, there's my Entrust cert.
And I can look at it,
and I can verify the fingerprint,
and I can see all the fields in it.
and all the extensions
and its CRL distribution
points and verify it myself.
Keychain Access is using that same view
that is available on security interface
to display the contents of the cert.
It's just inserted in the window,
much as you'd put it in
your own application.
So now that that route is in there,
let's go back here to the web browser.
Let's try to reload this.
Well, actually, let's start fresh and
try to go to that site.
And this time, I can get there.
And when I look at the actual cert chain,
I see now that it's actually verified
all the way back to the root,
and it's in there.
So, how much work was it for me to just
take that sample app and put the
certificate trust management into it?
Well, let me show you the
actual source code here.
I added a method called Evaluate Trust,
and it gets called
whenever a URL is loaded.
So I can go off and evaluate the trust.
I start,
what I want to do is make a trust object,
a SecTrustRef.
As Michael explained,
it's a workflow object,
so I'll be just sort of putting
stuff into it to encapsulate what
the trust means for this connection.
I can get a policy ref.
I've written some code to give
me back the policy for SSL,
because that's the one
I'm interested in here.
And then I call
SecTrustCreateWithCertificates.
So I take the certificates
that I got back from that
connection in server certs,
and I take the policy
that I'm interested in,
which is SSL, and I feed them into that,
and it gives me back a trust
object for that particular policy.
So once I have the trust object,
I want to evaluate the trust.
I want to actually make sure that
it verifies to a trusted root and
that there's no problems with it.
And the call I made to do
that is SecTrustEvaluate.
I just pass in the trust object
and I get the trust result back.
So then I can look at what
that trust result was.
One of the possible values that it
can return is KSEC trust result deny,
which means, no, it's just denied.
The user has said, "Don't ever trust this
cert." So I bail out.
But if not, they may have also said,
"KSEC, trust, result,
proceed." So they may have said,
"Always trust this cert, no matter what."
For that particular policy,
for that trust.
In that case, I can return and go
ahead and load the page.
In the case that's interesting,
when we get a recoverable trust
failure from the evaluation,
we can ask the user what to do,
and that's real easy.
Cook up my own message telling
the user what the situation
is and why they might care,
and then I get a
SF certificate trust panel.
This is just a singleton object that
I can grab and then put up a sheet.
The parameters to put up the sheet
are the window I want to put it
up on and a selector for what
happens when the user puts it away.
I pass in the URL so
that I can display it,
and I pass in the trust because
that's what gets displayed.
It's got the certificate chain,
and it has all the things that
will be displayed to the user,
and then my own custom message.
And if the result was
some other kind of error,
I can...
return the flag that says, "No,
don't load the page.
There was an error." And otherwise,
the page loads and everything's fine.
So that was basically all it
took to implement Certificate
Trust in that web browser.
So with that,
I'd like to hand it back to Michael,
and thank you.
Thank you, Ken.
Well, so just to summarize
what we've done today,
or we talked about today.
So there's new and improved
APIs for your development pleasure.
Most of them have been
available since Jaguar.
Some of them are new in Panther.
If you need your app to run
on Mac OS 10.1 or earlier,
you should stick to the
Carbon Keychain Manager APIs,
which I doubt very many of you
are still developing for 10.1,
but if you are,
then that's what you can do,
and it's there.
The Sec APIs are easier to
use than the CSSM layer.
The CSSM layer is fairly
complicated to use,
but it's very, very flexible.
And because of our
toll-free bridging to CDSA,
you can bridge down to that when
you do need the extra flexibility.
But you don't have to always deal with
the complexity in the simple cases.
[Transcript missing]
And avoid micromanaging.
That's basically what I just said.
Just use the APIs you need
and use them appropriately.
And with that, I'd like to bring...
Craig back on stage.
We'll go through these little road
map thingies and we'll get to Q&A.
So the reason why we put roadmap
things on for things that have already
happened is because you'll get the DVDs,
and we wanted you to be
able to go back in time,
even though we don't give you
time machines here at WWDC.
I'm going to skip past these.
I'll bring them back up on
the screen while we're doing
Q&A because we're running long.